# AK-Project
My Project

Automated ELK Stack Deployment

https://github.com/aku025/AK-Project/blob/main/AK-Project/Diagram.png

These files have been tested and used to generate a live ELK deployment on Azure. They can be used to either recreate the entire deployment pictured above. Alternatively, select portions of the Project 1 Red-Team Network Diagram file may be used to install only certain pieces of it, such as Filebeat.

https://github.com/aku025/AK-Project/blob/main/AK-Project/Filebeat.txt

This document contains the following details:
- Description of the Topology
- Access Policies
- ELK Configuration
  - Beats in Use
  - Machines Being Monitored
- How to Use the Ansible Build

Description of the Topology

The main objective of this project is to test the vulnerabilities of a DVWA (DAMN VULNERABLE WEB APPLICATION) in a controlled environment created through Azure.

Load balancing ensures that the application will be highly operational, in addition to restricting unwanted traffic to the network.
    
What aspect of security do load balancers protect? 
- It ensures that a single server does not become overworked and stressed, therefore maintaining efficiency and keeps the servers online.

What is the advantage of a jump box?
- A jump box/server acts as a gateway to your infrastructure. Being the only entrance, it helps limit potential attacks

Integrating an ELK server allows users to easily monitor the vulnerable VMs for changes to the network and system logs.
What does Filebeat watch for?
- Log files 
What does Metricbeat record?
- Metric and Statistical Data

| Name                | Function | IP-Address | OS    |
|---------------------|----------|------------|-------|
| JumpBox Provisioner | Gateway  | 10.0.0.5   | Linux |
| Elk-VM              | Server   | 10.2.0.4   | Linux |
| Vm1                 | Server   | 10.0.0.6   | Linux |
| Vm2                 | Server   | 10.0.0.7   | Linux |



Access Policies

The machines on the internal network are not exposed to the public Internet. 

Only the Jump-Box machine can accept connections from the Internet. Access to this machine is only allowed from the following IP addresses:
192.168.56.1

Machines within the network can only be accessed by Jump-Box Provisioner.
Which machine did you allow to access your ELK VM?
- Jump-Box-Provisioner
What was its IP address?
- 10.0.0.5                                                              

A summary of the access policies in place can be found in the table below.

| Name                | Publicly Accessable | Allowed IP-Address |
|---------------------|---------------------|--------------------|
| JumpBox Provisioner | Yes                 | 192.168.56.1       |
| Elk-VM              | No                  | 10.0.0.5           |
| Vm1                 | No                  | 10.0.0.5           |
| Vm2                 | No                  | 10.0.0.5           |


Elk Configuration

Ansible was used to automate configuration of the ELK machine. No configuration was performed manually, which is advantageous because...

- Ansible is very flexible and easy to use and set up
- Has a wide range of modules and playbooks available to use

The playbook implements the following tasks:
1. SSH into Jump-Box Provisioner -ssh azdmin@20.213.53.120-
2. Connect to Ansible Docker 
(sudo docker start determined_mendeleev)
(sudo docker attach determined_mendeleev)
3. Created (in /etc/ansible/roles) and Ran ELK playbook (Elk_Playbook.yml)
4. Confirm Elk VM is functional (SSH)

https://github.com/aku025/AK-Project/blob/main/AK-Project/ELK%20VM%20CONFIRM.png

Target Machines & Beats

*This ELK server is configured to monitor the following machines:
- List the IP addresses of the machines you are monitoring
NewVM-1 (10.1.0.13)


In 1-2 sentences, explain what kind of data each beat collects, and provide 1 example of what you expect to see. E.g., Winlogbeat collects Windows logs, which we use to track user logon events, etc._
- Filebeat is used to collect log files from specific files on remote machines.
- Examples of Filebeats can be files that are generated by Apache, Microsoft Azure tools, the Nginx web server, and MySQl databases.
Using the Playbook
*In order to use the playbook, you will need to have an Ansible control node already configured. Assuming you have such a control node provisioned:
SSH into the control node and follow the steps below:
Filebeat
- Copy the filebeat-configuration.yml file to /etc/ansible/roles/files.
- Update the filebeat-configuration.yml file to include the ELK private IP in lines 1106 and 1806.
- Run the playbook and navigate to http://52.189.193.248:5601/ 
https://github.com/aku025/AK-Project/blob/main/AK-Project/Filebeat%20Screen.png

Metricbeat
- Copy the metricbeat-configuration.yml file to /etc/ansible/roles/files.
- Update the metricbeat-configuration.yml file to include the ELK private IP in lines 62 and 96.
- Run the playbook and navigate to http://52.189.193.248:5601/
https://github.com/aku025/AK-Project/blob/main/AK-Project/MetricBeat%20Screen.png

Answer the following questions to fill in the blanks:
Which file is the playbook? filebeat-playbook.yml
Where do you copy it? /etc/ansible/roles
Which file do you update to make Ansible run the playbook on a specific machine? /etc/ansible/hosts file 
How do I specify which machine to install the ELK server on versus which to install Filebeat on? 
There are two groups in the file located in etc/ansible/hosts. One called webservers which will have Filebeat installed into and the other called elkservers which will contain the information for VM with ELK installed
Which URL do you navigate to in order to check that the ELK server is running? http://52.189.193.248:5601/

